---
layout: page
title: "Cross-over with sequence effect"
description: ""
group: 
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This discussion relates to these previous discussions:

  - [same client](meetings/20170809.html)
  - [similar design](meetings/20170221.html)


Catherine similar experiment
Change score

## Cross-over experiment

- 3 treatments: rest, relax, activating
- 2 sequences across 3 periods: 
  - rest -> relax -> activating
  - rest -> activating -> relax
- 20 subjects
- explanatory varibles:
  - years music education > 5 years (binary)
- response is impulse reading (continuous)

## Model

Consider models that only look at treatments relax and activating

### Design-based model (no interaction)

Fixed effects:

  - treatment
  - sequence
  - period


Random effects:

  - subject

#### Issue
  
Sequence effect is significant.


### Design-based model with interaction

Fixed effects:

  - treatment
  - sequence
  - period
  - music education
  - treatment x music education

Random effects:

  - subject

#### Issue
  
Treatment x sequence interaction is significant.


### Modeling with explanatory variable(s)

Fixed effects:

  - treatment
  - sequence
  - period
  - treatment x sequence
  - music education

Random effects:

  - subject

#### Issue
  
Unknown.



## Advice

### Modeling without explanatory variables

#### Comparing treatment A to B

Treat the problem has having 5 means: 

  - rest in period 0
  - relax in period 1
  - relax in period 2
  - activating in period 1
  - activating in period 2
  
To assess differences between relax and activating, 
take contrasts to calculate:

  - the difference between relax and activating in period 1 
  - the difference between relax and activating in period 2


#### Comparing effect of treatment vs control

Due to the effect of sequence, 
construct contrasts to calculate 

  - the difference between relax in period 1 and control
  - the difference between activating in period 1 and control

and the difference between these differences.

  
### Modeling including explanatory variable  

#### Simpler analysis

Ignore period 2 data. 
For each subject, 
calculate the difference between the period 1 treatment and 
control and use this as the response. 
Build a model for this response including period 1 treatment,
music education, and (possibly) their interaction. 

#### More complex analysis

Build a model for all the data with 10 means consisting of every combination
of period, treatment, and music education 
(control treatment in period 0 with the same music education can be combined
into a common group).
Now construct contrasts to assess the effect of music education.

### Modeling including control measurement

Rather than using differences between treatments and control, 
control measurement could be included as an explanatory variable.
This is related to change scores. 
  
### Design

These suggestions are mainly focused on the effect of sequence. 

#### Increase wash-out

If there is interest in eliminating the sequence effect, 
more time should be given between treatments (the wash-out) so that the 
sequence effect is minimized.

#### Measure rest between treatments

To assess the effect of period 1 treatment, 
measure the response between the two treatments.

#### Study longevity of treatment effect

Measure response a number of times before the treatment.
Give the treatment, then measure the response many times after the treatment.