---
layout: page
title: "Cross-over with sequence effect"
description: ""
group: 
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Looking at the relationship between the number of bees present and the 
amount of vegetation at a location.

## Data

### Bees

 - 3 years of data
 - 11 different sites (unbalanced across years)
 - 5 survey periods per year
 - measure total number of bees
 - 5-6 different trap types (currently aggregating over trap types)
 - currently looking at bee abundance
 
### Vegetation 
 
In each site, there are 
 
 - 10 quadrats
 - measure coverage in each quadrat
 - currently averaging across the 10 quadrats
 
### Question

What is the relationship between coverage and bee abundance?
 
## Model

Poisson regression with fixed effects for 

 - average coverage
 - survey period
 - year
 - coverage*period
 - coverage*year
 - period*year
 - coverage*period*year
 
random effects for 

 - site
 - site*year
 - site*year*period (observation specific)

### Other models

Also considered normal regression models based on log and sqrt
transforms. 

Negative-binomials failed to converge.

### Results

Inidcation of overdispersion in a model without the 
observation-specific random effect. 

Zero estimate for variance for year*site interaction in the 
model with the observation-specific random effect.
 
 
### Question 
 
How to deal with overdispersion?




## Advice

Pull all coverage interactions. 

### Model

Fixed effects for 

 - coverage
 - use year-period combination 
 
Random effects for 

 - site
 - site*year

Possibly add an observation-specific random effect in a Poisson model
to deal with overdispersion.