---
layout: page
title: "AES Consulting meeting on 24 Jan 2017"
description: ""
group: 
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## Cross-over behavioral experiment

The purpose of this experiment is to determine preference for light source. 

### Treatment

Two light sources:

 - LED
 - CFL
 
A cage has two rooms connected by an open door.
One room has an LED light and the other with CFL.
The experiment is run over 4 days with the light source alternating each day. 
The experiment is repeated 6 times with different birds.

### Responses

 - Number of bird hours under a particular light
 - Number of birds per cage
 - Amount of feed consumed
 
 
## Recommendations

When analyzing the experiment first try to calculate a one number summary for 
each trial-cage combination, e.g. 

 - Average (over days) number of bird hours on the LED side
 - Average (over days) number of birds per cage at night
 - Average (over days) difference in feed consumed (LED-CFL)
 
Then determine whether these are significantly different than a pre-specified
value, e.g.

 - 15 bird-light hours
 - 1.5 birds per cage
 - 0 difference
 
If the signal is big enough, then we will get significant differences here.
If not, then we may try to build more complicated models that account for 

 - light order
 - day
 - trial (repeat)
 - cage side
 
But then we need to deal with random effects and correlation which could be 
negative. 



## Concerns

One concern is the antagonism between birds. 
If there is a bully bird and the other two avoid it, 
then when you measure the cage, you will believe that one light source is 
perferred but in fact the opposite is true. 