---
layout: page
title: "ex0918"
description: ""
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This is a modification of the Exercise 9.18 in the textbook. First, to make the remainder to the problem easier, we need to convert the data from wide format to long format. In SAS, we do 

    DATA ex0918; 
       INFILE 'ex0918.csv' DSD FIRSTOBS=2; 
       INPUT Continent $ Latitude Females SE_Females Males SE_Males Ratio SE_Ratio;  RUN;
    
    PROC SORT DATA=ex0918; 
      BY Continent Latitude;
    
    PROC TRANSPOSE DATA=ex0918   OUT=ex0918long(rename=(COL1=WingSize)); 
      BY Continent Latitude; 
      VAR Females Males; 
      RUN;

    DATA ex0918long;
      SET ex0918long; 
      Sex = _NAME_;
    
    PROC PRINT DATA=ex0918long; RUN;

In R, we do 

    library(reshape2) 
    ex0918 = read.csv("ex0918.csv", na.strings='')
    cols = c("Continent","Latitude","Females","Males")
    ex0918long = melt(ex0918[,cols], id.vars = cols[1:2], variable.name="Sex", value.name="WingSize")
    ex0918long$Sex = relevel(ex0918long$Sex, ref='Males')
    ex0918long$Continent = relevel(ex0918long$Continent, ref='NA')

Now, instead of forcing a particular construction of the model as described in part b, I would like you to use the following model. In SAS, 

    PROC GLM DATA=ex0918long; 
      CLASS Continent(REF='NA') Sex(REF='Males'); 
      MODEL WingSize = Latitude|Sex|Continent / SOLUTION; 
      RUN;
      
In R, 
      
    m = lm(WingSize~Latitude*Sex*Continent, ex0918long)
    
These will give you slightly different models since R puts all main effects first while SAS puts two main effects first and then their interaction, etc. 

Given these models, I would like you to do the following:

1. Create a scatter plot of WingSize vs Latitude with a different coding for each Continent-Sex combination.
1. Write the model and define any notation you introduce.
1. Construct a table that identifies the intercept and slope (coefficient for Latitude) for each Continent-Sex combination using the coefficients from part b).
1. Repeat that same table, but this time put in the estimated intercepts and slopes. 

