courses/next_courses.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Next Statistics Courses"
description: "for STAT 587 students""
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### [Next courses](http://catalog.iastate.edu/azcourses/stat/)

A [minor in Statistics for an individual in a Masters Program](https://www.stat.iastate.edu/statistics-minor-master%E2%80%99s-students) requires 587, 
588, and at least one other 3-credit 400-level or above STAT course. 
A [minor in Statistics for an individual in a PhD Program](https://www.stat.iastate.edu/statistics-minor-phd-students) requires 587, 588, and at least 2 other 3-credit 400-level or above STAT courses.

- STAT 447/588 - Statistical Theory for Research Workers
  - STAT 444 - Bayesian Data Analysis
  - STAT 432 - Applied Probability Models
  - STAT 406 - Statistical Methods for Spatial Data
- STAT 402 - Statistical Design and Analysis Of Experiments  
- STAT 457 - Applied Categorical Data Analysis
- STAT 416 - Statistical Design and Analysis of Gene Expression Experiments
- STAT 407/575 - Methods of Multivariate Analysis (matrix algebra)
- STAT 421 - Survey Sampling Techniques
- STAT 415 - Advanced Statistical Methods for Research Workers (1 credit)
- STAT 479 - Computer Processing of Statistical Data
- STAT 585 - Data Technologies for Statistical Analysis

Commit message:

Update course numbers and names

courses/next_courses.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Next Statistics Courses"
description: "for STAT 587 students""
---
{% include JB/setup %}

### [Next courses](http://catalog.iastate.edu/azcourses/stat/)

A [minor in Statistics for an individual in a Masters Program](https://www.stat.iastate.edu/statistics-minor-master%E2%80%99s-students) requires 587, 
588, and at least one other 3-credit 400-level or above STAT course. 
A [minor in Statistics for an individual in a PhD Program](https://www.stat.iastate.edu/statistics-minor-phd-students) requires 587, 588, and at least 2 other 3-credit 400-level or above STAT courses.
A maximum of nine 400-level courses can be included on a graduate program of study (POS). 

Statistics courses are listed on 
[the University Course Catalog](https://catalog.iastate.edu/azcourses/stat/), 
but I have pulled out those courses that are likely to be of interest to 
graduates of STAT 587.

- STAT 588 - Statistical Theory for Research Workers
  - STAT 474/574 - Introduction to Bayesian Data Analysis
  - STAT 478/578 - Introduction to Stochastic Process Models
  - STAT 476/576 - Introduction to Spatial Data Analysis
- STAT 471/571 - Introduction to Experimental Design 
- STAT 472/572 - Introduction to Time Series
- STAT 473/573 - Introduction to Survey Sampling
- STAT 475/575 - Introduction to Multivariate Data Analysis (matrix algebra)
- STAT 477/577 - Introduction to Categorical Data Analysis
- STAT 484/584 - Computer Processing of Scientific Data
- STAT 581 - Analysis of Gene Expression Data for the Biological Sciences

You should look for courses that say "May not be used for graduate credit in the Statistics MS and PhD degree programs" as these courses are meant for non-statistics graduate students.
